#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Water Bucket =

The convenient way to keep your chickens hydrated and happy. 

== Why?==

Why not just use one of the standard waters bought at the local farm store.
Chickens are dirty, busy, and rambunctious animals. 

==Lessons learnt==

We wanted to have a care free clean water for our chickens. First we tried the store bought upside down mason jar style. Everyday the chickens either knocked it over, put wood chips in it or pooped in their water. Not a good solution. Next we tried a gravity fed water nipple system. This worked OK but was impossible to clean. The best solution turned out to be a horizontal spring loaded nipples that mount directly in the side of a 5 gallon bucket. 

===Nipple Installation Instructions===

 # Get a bucket made from HDPE that has an easy to remove lid. Most buckets are HDPE just head to the local hardware store. 
 # Drill a 11/32 inch hole and screw in the nipple making sure the "lip" is on the bottom
 # Fill with water and put in the chicken run. About a foot off the ground works fine. 
 # A few taps on the metal pin to show your chickens this is where water comes from and they pick it up instantly. 
 # We put apple cider vinegar in our girls water to keep it clean and provide them some health benefits. 1 tablespoon per gallon is a good ratio. 

You can find horizontal poultry nipples here and various other places on the web

http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Daps&field-keywords=Horizontal+%28Side+Mount%29+Poultry+Nipples



==Cold Weather==
We are located in the Michigan.Tough winters are a fact of life. Our chickens know how hard it gets. Everyday we would put out fresh water and every night we would bring in 5 gallons of solid ice. 

This was becoming to much work for our low maintenance chickens. We tried a 25 watt aquarium water heater. This worked well until the temperature dipped below 0 Fahrenheit. So we upgraded to a 125 watt heater which was the trick. The water stays liquid and keeps the nipples from freezing. 

== Heater Installation Instructions ==

 # Drill a pilot hole in the side of the bucket near the top. 
 # Step up to a 1/2 inch hole.
 # Using a saw cut from the top of the bucket to the top of the 1/2" drilled hole.
 # Work the grommet over the electrical cord of the heater
 # Push the grommet into the 1/2" hole to seal out dirt and grime
 # Mount the heater to the front side of the bucket near the water nipples
 # Place a zip tie on the electrical code to prevent the heater from moving in the bucket.  

Now your chickens will have water available 24/7 even in the dead of winter.

You can find the heater we used here.

http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Daps&field-keywords=EHEIM+Jager+Aquarium+Thermostat+Heater+125W